hello everyone before we dive into
today's video I have a small favor to
ask I'm currently developing a
psychological horror game called pit of
despair and I would be grateful if you
could take a moment to wish list it
thank PT Silent Hills meets the exit
8 this tutorial is completely free but
if you'd like to support me you can get
the project files on patreon with a
one-time purchase or a monthly
subscription all links are in the
description below let's begin so to
start you will have to create a new
Unity project make sure you selected
Universal 3D
core I will be naming my project looping
hallway you could name yours whatever
you
like and the new Unity project start by
creating two empty game objects and name
them both hallway piece one and hallway
piece
to after you have done that we will
start by creating the pieces of the main
hallway I will be using probuilder but
you can use whatever blockout tool you
want for the walls I will use cubes and
for the floors I will use planes the
walls I will give a width of 0. 25 and a
height of three I will give both the
walls and floor a length of
12.5 the floor I will give a WID of
three
I just duplicate the First wall I have
created to make my job a bit easier if
both walls and floor are created you can
snap them together by using the move
tool and pressing V on your keyboard
this could be used by hovering over an
edge left Mouse clicking and dragging to
snap items correctly together when you
snapped the two walls and the floor
together make sure to drag them into to
the empty game object hallway piece one
we have just
created make a duplicate of those two
walls and floor you just created and
drag them into the empty game object
hallway piece two now you have two
identical hallway
pieces now you should snap together the
two hallway pie pieces we have just
created snap them together in the same
way I am snapping them together on
screen this is important because we will
create a corner piece in the next part
of the
video start by creating the floor by
adding a plane to the scene and making
the width
2.75 and the length tree
create two
walls the First wall will have a width
of
0.25 a height of three and a length of
2.5 the second wall will also have a
width of 0. 25 and a height of three but
its length will be three
[Music]
make sure you snap the two walls and the
floor together like shown in the
video after you snapped all the pieces
together drag them into an empty game
object named corner
piece drag and snap the corner piece to
the two hallway
pieces now we will be making the last
two sections of the
hallway start by duplicating one of the
hallway
pieces drag the duplicated piece a bit
forward so select the two walls and the
floor and make their length a bit
smaller for the next part you have to
drag in your door
prefab if any of you don't have a
working door I can make a tutorial about
doors that close automatically behind
you so please let me know anyways now we
will have to create walls that will fit
around the
door I will first try to correctly align
the door with the hallway
opening I will start by creating the
sidewall
piece this piece will have a WID of
0.25 a height of three and a length of
0.9 after you have created this wall
piece duplicate and drag the duplicated
wall piece over to the other side of the
door now snap the wall pieces and door
to the open end of the
hallway next you will have to create a
wall piece that will fill the Gap above
the door
I used the rack tool to mold this piece
into the right size so that it would fit
[Music]
now we will add the
floor press the I icon on the hallway
game object to make it disappear so you
can have a better view of the door and
its walls I will again use a plane for
the floor and make it
0.25 wide because the walls are also
0.25 wide and the length
tree because the walls are also
tree after you have done this snap the
floor piece to the door and its
[Music]
walls make a new game object name it
something like door and frame and drag
the door walls and floor or you have
just created into the empty game
[Music]
object duplicate this game object and
give it a proper name
drag forward the duplicated game object
and snap it to the other open hallway
[Music]
end now we will create the teleport /
trigger
Zone I will just use a normal Cube and
give it a big enough size to fill up the
hallway
the trigger Zone will be used to attach
the script and teleport the player when
they walk into
it and the teleport Zone will be used as
the Zone where the player will be
teleported
to but more on that
[Music]
later at an empty game object and call
it
placeholder drag every part of the
hallway section you just created into
the empty game
object after that you need to duplicate
the placeholder game object and drag it
to the right so that both hallway
sections are side by
side make sure that both cubes
trigger Zone and teleport Zone their
aess are facing the same way this is
necessary for the teleportation to work
properly after that you should rename
both the placeholder game object and its
duplicate to hallway start section and
hallway end section
now rotate and snap together the hallway
end section and the hallway start
section to the main hallway
ends after you rename the hallway
section you should rename the cube in
the hallway start section to teleport
Zone and the cube in the hallway end
section to trigger
Zone turn off the mesh renderer for the
teleport Zone and make sure to delete
the Box cider in the
process do the same for the trigger Zone
but instead of deleting the Box collider
keep the Box collider and check on the
is trigger option now press on the add
components button below and add a new
script and call it new player teleporter
open the script you just
created now that you have your script
open delete the start and update methods
start by adding a public track transform
named teleport Zone object this will be
used to hold the teleport Zone Cube we
created earlier next we will create a
private method named on trigger
enter this is a built-in Unity method
that can be used to check for objects
that have entered its trigger Zone
we will be checking for objects that
have a player
tag we will add a player controller and
give it a player tag later
on next we will get the character
controller from the player this
temporarily disables the character
controller component of the player
[Music]
because the character controller can
interfere with manual changes to the
player's position it's disabled during
teleportation it's enabled back again
after the player has
teleported if you are using a player
controller that makes use of a rigid
body you can use this code instead
the next line of code I will type will
calculate where the player is relative
to the trigger Zone this ensures the
players's position is adjusted properly
maintaining their relative position when
teleported for example if the player is
slightly to the left of the Zone Center
they will still be slightly to the left
after teleportation
this line of code will calculate how the
player's rotation should change based on
the teleport Zone's
[Music]
orientation for example if the teleport
zone is rotated 90° to the right the
player will also turn 90° to the right
[Music]
the next line of cod will move the
player to the calculated position at the
teleport Zone keeping their relative
position intact
this line adjusts the player's
orientation to match the teleport Zone
now we will drag our player controller
into the
scene I have my own custom player
controller but if you don't have a
custom player controller you could just
use a standard free one from the unity
asset store if you want me to make a
tutorial about how I made my custom
player controller please let me know in
the comments make sure your player
controller has its stack set to
player delete the default main camera
otherwise we will have two cameras in
one
scene now I will do some clean up and
create an empty game object named
hallway to drag everything
into I will also make an empty game
object to drag the main hallway pieces
[Music]
into I forgot to add the roof when I was
building the hallway so I will do that
right now make the thickness of the roof
whatever you like I will choose
0.25 the width of the roof should be
three
[Music]
finally before we can test our creation
we must adjust the light to be the same
everywhere in the scene this is a must
because the lighting in the hallway
start section is different from the
lighting in the hallway end section and
vice versa start by deleting the
directional
light go to the top click on window then
on rendering and then on
lighting when you open the lighting
settings go to the environment Tab and
change the source from Skybox to
color change the ambient color to a
whish
color of course this will not be enough
enough if you are creating a real game I
just use this method to be time
efficient and at last we can finally
test our
creation if you have any questions or
feedback please comment down below also
consider
subscribing thank you see you in the
next video